# OOP

https://medium.com/from-the-scratch/oop-everything-you-need-to-know-about-object-oriented-programming-aee3c18e281b
https://medium.com/@richardeng/a-simple-explanation-of-oop-46a156581214

In OOP, objects have fields to store knowledge/state/data and can do various works — methods.

Basic Terminologies:
 - Object: It's the instance of a class/ it’s the working entity of a class.
 - Class: It is a template or blue print about the capability of what an object can do.
 - Method: The behaviours of a class. It tells what a method can do.
 - Instance: Object and Instance both are same with small difference.
              The creation of instance is called instantiation!

OOPs Concepts:
 - Encapsulation
Encapsulation is a mechanism of wrapping the data (instance variables) and code acting on the data (methods) together as a single unit like a Class.
The main purpose of encapsulation is you would have full control on data by using the code.
 - Abstraction
Abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details from the user, only the functionality will be provided to the user.
In other words, the user will have the information on what the object does instead of how it does it.
Can have multiple implementations
Building complex system by splitting the complexity level by level.
Abstraction can be achieved by Composition.
GOAD principle -'Code should be open for Extension but closed for Modification'.
 - Polymorphism
In object-oriented programming, polymorphism (from the Greek meaning “having multiple forms”) is the characteristic of being able to assign a different meaning or usage to something in different contexts — specifically, to allow an entity such as a function, or an object to have more than one form.
 - Inheritance
 - Inheritance promotes reusability.
   Reusability enhanced reliability.
 Inheritance is one of the most mis-used feature of OOPs by beginner programmers.
TIP: Unless there is an absolute need for an inheritance, don’t use it!

## Polymorphism explained simply!

https://medium.com/@shanikae/polymorphism-explained-simply-7294c8deeef7
1. Dynamic Polymorphism (re-implement the method in inherit class)
    This is also mentioned as Run-Time polymorphism, Dynamic binding, Run-Time binding, Late
    binding and Method overriding. Here having many forms is happening in different classes.
    This is what is commonly known as so called `polymorphism`.

2. Static Polymorphism (the same class have same name method)
    This is also mentioned as Compile-Time polymorphism, Static binding, Compile-Time binding,
    Early binding and Method overloading. Here having many forms is happening in the same class.


# Software Development Process Methodologies

If you have learned/heard the basic Software Development Process Methodologies. The 2 main
names come into your mind should be Waterfall and Agile!
For those who are not from tech background…

 - Waterfall — The waterfall model is a relatively linear sequential design approach for
     certain areas of engineering design. In software development, it tends to be among the less
     iterative and flexible approaches, as it follows a long-term plan step-by-step.

 - Agile — Agile is an iterative, team-based approach to development. This approach emphasizes
     the rapid delivery of an application in complete functional components.
